Eda python pandas (#21)
LaunchCodeEducation/data-analysis-curriculum: content/eda-with-pandas/reading/series-with-pandas/_index.md

+++
title = "pandas Series"
date = 2024-02-29T09:18:56-06:00
draft = false
weight = 2
+++

The `pandas` library comes with two types of classes to handle data. The first that we will learn about is the **pandas Series**. A `pandas Series` can be visualized as an individual column within a spreadsheet. The column typically has a name and an index for each row associated with that column.

A `pandas Series` can hold any data type and all values within a `Series` are associated with a labeled index. The labeled index can be either label or integer-based. An example of a label-based index would be `groceries` or `movies` while an integer-based index would be numeric (`1`, `2`, `3`, `etc..`).

{{% notice blue Note "rocket" %}}

> While a `Series` is capable of holding any type of data it usually only holds one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While a `Series` can hold any type of data, it usually only holds one.
```

{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice blue Note "rocket" %}}

> If you would like to change the code within the blocks of code below to view different outputs and work with the code on your own, you can access them by opening up `data-analysis-projects/eda-with-pandas/reading-examples` in Jupyer Notebook for this this section and following sections!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to change the code within the blocks of code below to view different outputs and work with the code on your own, you can access them by opening up `data-analysis-projects/eda-with-pandas/reading-examples` in Jupyter Notebook for this section and following sections!
```

{{% /notice %}}

## Creating a Series
Let's take a look at the syntax for creating a `Series` using lists, dictionaries, and tuples.

### Using a List

```python {linenos=table}
# import pandas
import pandas as pd

# Create a pandas Series by providing a list
example_list = pd.Series(["apple", "banana", "avocado", "honey dew"])

# Create a pandas Series from a pre-existing list of values
pre_existing_list = ["apple", "banana", "avocado", "honey dew"]

series_from_existing_list = pd.Series(pre_existing_list)
```

The above code block accomplishes the following:

> 1. imports `pandas` as `pd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Imports `pandas` as `pd`.
```

series_from_existing_tuple = pd.Series(pre_existing_tuple)
```

The above code block accomplishes the following:
1. imports `pandas` as `pd`.
1. Creates a `pandas` `Series` called `example_tuple` by providing a tuple with values.
1. Creates a `pandas` `Series` called `series_from_existing_tuple` by using an already existing tuple `pre_existing_tuple` and passing it in as a parameter to the `.Series()` function.

## Indexing and Naming

When creating a `pandas Series` you have the ability to add custom index labels and a name (sometimes also referred to as a label) for the column associated with the `Series`.  

If you do not add custom index labels to a `Series` and none already exist it will default to a typical index range of `0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc..`. In regards to column names, if you do not add a custom name to the column it will default to `none`.

{{% notice blue Example "rocket" %}}
In order to add custom index labels you can add in an additional parameter when creating the `Series`:

```python
custom_index_labels = pd.Series(["apple", "banana", "avocado", "honey dew"], index = ["red", "yellow", "green", "green"])
```
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice blue Example "rocket" %}}

> If you would like to add a customized column name you would also need to add in an additional parameter when creating the `Series`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to add a customized column name, you would also need to add an additional parameter when creating the `Series`:
```
